What's important to understand
is when the observer executes,
it actually pushes itself
onto the stack again and
calls the function, and
does the whole thing all over again.
And we're using a set, so
maybe it's not too bad,
because we're deduping cuz you can
only have one of each entry in a set.
But, this implementation on its own isn't
quite good enough because,
well, if we created,
let's go a little bit further here.
We've done the basic stuff here, but,
what if we wanted to do something
like that last dynamic thing,
where the values actually change what's
subscribed based on what changes.
And this is, I'm gonna add, fortunately,
I have to create three signals
to actually create this example.
And count starts looking a lot worse
[LAUGH] when the count doesn't not matter,
but essentially,
we aren't cleaning up after ourselves, and
the cleanup part is actually important.
So, let's see here,
I'm gonna make show setShow, okay?
Well, this reactive system we
created is already fairly complete.
The reason I say there's 50 lines, not 30
lines, so to speak, is that sometimes,
made this example a little bit more
complicated here, but right now,
because show is true, it's just
always gonna console, log(count).
However, if we do something
like setShow(false).
In theory, you might expect updating
count not to trigger this again,
because you've changed the logical path,
you're now going to 2.
But because of the way that
we aren't cleaning up,
setting count is still a subscription.
So, we have a little bit more work to do.
I'm hoping this is clear, but essentially,
the first time it runs,
it sees show, sees count.
The second time it runs, sees show, sees
count2, this is when I set show to false.
When I set count at this point,
you won't expect it to run again
coz nothing is listening to it.
However, we did not clean that up,
which is why it is running again.
So, we're gonna fix that right now,
essentially.
It is console logging the right stuff,
it is console logging count2 here,
which started with 2.
But, this 2 here is the console indicating
to us that it actually ran twice.
So, let's see if we can fix that up.
And, the way to fix that up is
a little bit more complicated,
but, it's important that
every time we run our effect,
it actually has to clean up the effect,
okay?
So, we're gonna implement
a cleanup function and
I'm gonna create it up here, okay?
Well, we actually have a problem when we
try and go into our cleanup function,
because in order to clean up,
the effect has to know what signals it
actually is subscribed to, and
it doesn't actually track that.
Right now,
the signal knows about the effects, but
the effects do not know about the signals.
So, the actual very first thing we have to
do is inside our effect data structure,
we have to actually add,
I'm gonna call it dependencies, but
we're gonna add something to this object,
and it's also gonna be a new set.
I keep on using sets,
a lot of these can be arrays, but
I use sets because they dedupe, which
just makes things a little bit easier,
but now, we have a place to store this.
And, it's important to understand
that it's track both ways.
This is why the observer pattern
that we use here is classically what
we call leaky.
If things are not cleaned up properly,
you get references because they
are circularly referenced.
And this is important to reactivity, and
it'll influence part of Solid's design,
essentially.
So, what I'm gonna do here is,
okay, effect.execute, beautiful.
And, we have to change what
happens when we subscribe.
Before, we were just adding the observer,
which is a little easier,
but we're gonna implement
subscribe function,
and we're gonna pass the observer and
let's say, the subscriptions list, okay?
So, function subscribe, and
what do I say, observer, subscriptions.
Okay.
And, we do this because we're gonna still
add the observer to the subscription list,
but we're also at this point
going to reverse link it and
take that observer and
take its dependencies, and
we're going to add
the subscriptions object set to it.
So, you see it's linked both ways.
So, now it's time we can
implement the cleanup function.
Of course, we have to be a little cautious
right now cuz it links both ways,
this can cause an infinite loop.
So, we actually have to take a snapshot
of the subscriptions when we notify them,
because it's gonna keep on pushing
the subscriptions onto the list.
So, what we're gonna do here is
we're actually gonna do a little
trick to clone this array,
which is by using the spread operator,
we can basically turn any set
into an array and we are good.
Okay, so, looks like we're still running,
perfect, okay.
Now, let's implement our cleanup function.
Our cleanup function,
which gets called at the top
of our execute function.
Needs our effect, okay?
And then.
What we're gonna do here
is we're gonna iterate
through all the dependencies
of our observer.
So, let's say dep of
observer.dependencies,
which are actually the subscription
lists for each signal that it has,
and then we're gonna just
delete the observer from it.
And when we're done,
we can just clear that list,
dependencies.clear, beautiful.
And, if you've noticed now,
the 2 is not logging twice.
Essentially, it only tracks
what it does for the last run,
and before we run it again,
it cleans up after itself.